---
slug: welcome
title: Welcome to Launchbox!
authors: rwittman
tags: [launchbox]
---

# Welcome to Launchbox!

We're glad you're here!

## Who we are

At the moment, I'm just a single passionate engineer. Through the years I've helped teams working on varying technologies, 
but usually dealing with the same problems with local development

- Maintenance and Repeatability 
- Deployment Automation 
- Troubleshooting 
- "Jury-rigging" things like webhooks, callbacks, auth mechanisms to work in a local context

Seeing the same problems across different domains, drove me to find a central solution to this problem. 

## What we do

In recent years, applications have grown increasingly complex
- OAuth / OIDC integrations
- Webhooks and Callbacks
- Cloud Provider IAM configurations
- and on, and on

Launchbox was built to solve these problems for engineers, product teams, and support staff alike. In Launchbox parlance,
we deal with "Projects". For every project that gets created, we quickly spin up an ephemeral cluster (powered by VCluster).
Addons and services can then either be installed through your traditional tooling, or through one of our automation mechanisms.

## What sets us apart 

Cloud Native Development Environments, and ephemeral Kubernetes clusters are not ground-breaking technology. There are multiple 
vendors and SaaS platforms these days offering the same. So what is it we do differently? 

Our focus is on automation. We're packaging a ton of different addons that can be 1-click installed into your projects, as 
well as attached to specific services. Each vcluster comes with an authenticated Docker build daemon, to bring down image 
build times. 

We also provide a myriad of ways for managing the compute you use / pay for.
- Multi Tenant, Launchbox managed clusters 
- Multi Tenant HQ, but with private Organization clusters, managed by you
- Multi Tenant HQ, but with private Organization clusters, managed by us
- Launchbox Hosted Installations (traditionally "Enterprise"), where we run HQ and clusters for you
- Self Hosted Installations, where you plumb everything together on-prem

We're also working on native CI integrations (Github Actions only, for now). Simply include the launchbox actions,
and it will ensure your project cluster exists. It will ensure the configuration and required services are deployed to 
it. When your pipeline is finished, the cluster will get paused, automatically resuming when new commits are received. 
When your PR is closed, the project is deleted (or simply paused indefinitely)

For teams using a different CI platform, you'll have to wire the API calls up manually

## Open Source, Always

Our ethos can be stated simply in those 3 words. We strive to keep all of our components and libraries MIT licensed, and
available to the public. No gotchas, no strings attached.

There's some things we can't share, such as internal infrastructure
configuration and the like. You'll have to get hired to access those :wink:

With that in mind, here's a few related stances on business:

- We don't do enterprise licensing. At all.
- We don't put any of our features behind a paywall.
- We don't require any licensing to self-host the fully featured platform.

Our public SaaS platform allows engineers, teams, and organizations to leverage our distributed network of clusters. We
provide these environments at extremely competitive pricing, and handle all of the Day 2 operations required. However,
if you want to self-host the platform, we support and encourage that. And you won't have to pay us anything. We do have
contracts available for white glove installations, or for ongoing support, but none of that is required. You can deploy
the platform, kick the tires on every single feature, and use it for years before wanting a support contract. If ever

For the folks who would like to host Launchbox internally, you can get started [here](/docs/docs/deployment/prerequisites)

## Pricing Model 

In the interest of transparency, I'd like to talk about our strategy regarding growth and monetization. If we aren't paywalling 
"Enterprise SSO" behind a $1M/year contract, what's our plan?

### Support Contracts
Pricing is yet to be determined on these. But if organizations want to run Launchbox internally, and still leverage our 
support team for assistance, they can enter a Support Contract with us. We'll help you keep the lights on as long as you want

### LaunchboxHQ 
Our core SaaS product is pay-as-you-go. We're looking at ways to keep costs as low as possible, so we can offer these 
environments at an attractive price. Teams that use HQ get access to a wide range of clusters across clouds, regions, and soon, countries.
Engineers can launch their project where they are, keeping latency and ultimately iteration time, as low as possible.

For teams that want to launch LaunchboxHQ managed projects on their own clusters, there is a low hourly rate per project for HQs management.

